c4a8a4 -- Updates to web page definition and editorials (#1912)
auto-wcag/auto-wcag: _rules/html-page-title-descriptive-c4a8a4.md

## Applicability

This rule applies to the first [HTML][] `title` element that

- is a [descendant](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-descendant) of the `html` element of a [web page](https://www.w3.org/TR/WCAG21/#dfn-web-page-s), and

> - contains [children](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-child) that are [text nodes](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#text) that are not only [whitespace](#whitespace).

Reviewer: Removing the "non empty" condition does change the Applicability a bit.
I don't remember why we had this in the first place (and the split with [HTML page has non-empty title](https://act-rules.github.io/rules/2779a5) which is automatable).

Author: > Removing the "non empty" condition does change the Applicability a bit. I don't remember why we had this in the first place (and the split with [HTML 
 page has non-empty title](https://act-rules.github.io/rules/2779a5) which is automatable).

Thanks @Jym77 

I don't remember either :-)

But do you think we should not get rid of that condition? Does not the browser automatically discard the first title elements if it's empty?

Reviewer: I'm not sure about discarding or not the condition since I do not remember why it was here in the first place (so I'm afraid there was a good reason and it would be a mistake to remove it).

I would at least want the removal to be a conscious decision in its own PR rather than a side effect hidden in an editorial PR (this is not purely editorial, and we want the changelog for the rule to list the Applicability change).

Reviewer 2: Interesting! Good catch @Jym77.  Doing some quick testing, empty `title` elements do not get ignored, so this update is correct. So we just accidentally fixed a bug!

Reviewer: 👍 

Given the change in Applicability, I think we need to add a Failed Example with an empty `title`.

Reviewer 2: @Jym77 I'm not sure that's necessary, but I don't see the harm in it either. Daniel added the example, can you have another look?

> This rule applies to the [document title][] of each [html web page][].

Author: Hey @Jym77  and @WilcoFiers 

What about something like this?

```suggestion
This rule applies to the first [document title][] of each [html web page][] that contains [text nodes](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#text) that are not only [whitespace](#whitespace).
```

> This rule applies to the [document title][] of each [html web page][] that contains [text nodes](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#text) that are not only [whitespace](#whitespace).

Reviewer: I feel the relative doesn't work 🤔 It sounds like "that" refers to "html web page" rather than "document title".
```suggestion
This rule applies to the [document title][] of each [html web page][] if this [document title][] contains [text nodes](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#text) that are not only [whitespace](#whitespace).
```

> This rule applies to the first [document title][] of each [html web page][] that contains [text nodes](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#text) that are not only [whitespace](#whitespace).

Reviewer 2: Probably fine to remove the word "first", since there can only be one document title.

```suggestion
This rule applies to the [document title][] of each [html web page][] that contains [text nodes](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#text) that are not only [whitespace](#whitespace).
```

> This rule applies to the first `title` element on an [html web page][] that is a [descendant](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-descendant) of the [document element](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#document-element) that contains [children](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-tree-child) that are [text nodes](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#text) that are not only [whitespace](#whitespace).

Reviewer 2: I think we can simplify this a good bit:

```suggestion
This rule applies to the [document title][] of each [html web page][].
```

The target element describes the topic or purpose of the overall content of the [document](https://dom.spec.whatwg.org/#concept-document).

## Assumptions

> There are currently no assumptions.

Reviewer: I think the Assumption still exists, but maybe in a slightly different form. See #1924 (an email written as HTML is an "html web page", the HTML document might have an empty `title` element but the email's Subject is actually used as the "title" (in WCAG sense), so it wouldn't fail the SC).
OTOH, we might let that as is and tackle that in another PR when solving #1924.

Author: > I think the Assumption still exists, but maybe in a slightly different form. See #1924 (an email written as HTML is an "html web page", the HTML document might have an empty `title` element but the email's Subject is actually used as the "title" (in WCAG sense), so it wouldn't fail the SC). OTOH, we might let that as is and tackle that in another PR when solving #1924.

+1 to keeping the assumption until we resolve that issue.

</svg>
```

> #### Failed Example 3

Author: This example is now removed again since this would fail the SC

</svg>
```

> [html web page]: #web-page-html 'Definition of Web Page (HTML)'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[document title]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dom.html#document.title 'HTML definition of Document Title'
[html web page]: #web-page-html 'Definition of Web Page (HTML)'
```

</svg>
```

> [document title]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dom.html#document.title 'HTML definition of Document Title'

Reviewer: This should rather point to
```suggestion
[document title]: https://html.spec.whatwg.org/multipage/dom.html#the-title-element-2 'HTML definition of Document Title'
```
(i.e. "the first `title` element …")

And we might want to accordingly change or remove the AS "assumption" that browsers do use it correctly if we take a definition from the specs.
